---
title: Darian - 1776 the Musical
published: 2024-09-10
description: ''
image: ''
tags: ['1776', 'musical']
category: 'Movie Review'
draft: false
---
1776, a musical directed by Peter H. Hunt, presents a dramatized account of the events leading to the signing of the Declaration of Independence. While the musical’s foundation lies in actual historical events surrounding the Second Continental Congress and the drafting of the Declaration of Independence, this is a musical movie so they had to remove and or change aspects of what happened during the Second Continental Congress to fit in the allotted movie time.

Many characters in 1776 are based on actual historical figures, including John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, John Dickinson and many more. The musical attempts to capture the essence of these individual’s personalities and roles, based on historical accounts and writings. John Adams is portrayed as a passionate and sometimes abrasive advocate for independence. This causes him to often alienate his fellow delegates with his persistence and sharp tongue. This reflects the historical Adams’ reputation as being obnoxious and disliked by his fellow delegates. Benjamin Franklin is portrayed as a wise, witty, and somewhat mischievous statesman. This characterization aligns with the historical accounts of Franklin’s personality, though his humor and flirtatiousness are amplified for comic effect. While the musical captures many aspects of Franklin;s character, it does downplay some of his more serious contributions to the independence movement and his scientific pursuits. Thomas Jefferson is depicted as a quiet, eloquent, and somewhat reluctant figure in the musical. The musical portrays Jefferson as a gifted writer who is initially hesitant to take on the task of drafting the Declaration of Independence. John Dickinson serves as the primary antagonist in the musical, representing the conservative faction opposed to independence. He is portrayed as eloquent, principled, and deeply committed to reconciliation with Britain.While Dickinson is set up as an antagonist to Admas, the musical takes care to present him as a man of integrity acting on his principles rather than as a villain.

While condensed, the musical follows the general timeline of the events from May to July of 1776. It highlights key debates and issues that were indeed central to the independence movement, such as the debate over independence versus reconciliation with Britain, discussions on slavery and its place in the new nation, and negotiations between different factions and colonies. Now some dialogue and lyrics in the musical were derived from actual letters, speeches, and documents written during the Second Continental Congress. This inclusion of primary sources adds a layer of historical authenticity to the production, allowing the audience to hear the actual words and sentiments of these historical figures.

1776 offers a blend of historical authenticity and theatrical invention. It provides the audience with an engaging, if simplified, look at a crucial period in American history while taking necessary liberties to create a compelling narrative and musical experience.
